Well let's talk about something that sounds quite complicated.
It's called M R O or method resolution order.
What does it mean.
We'll have an example here for you.
Let's say we have a class of a class of B that inherits from class of a does absolutely nothing.
And then we also have Class C that inherits again from a.
And then finally a Class D then inherits from B and C.
So we have two classes that do absolutely nothing.
And then a class saying Class C that have the same class object attribute.
And I've actually drawn out how this relationship looks like.
You see that D has multiple inheritance from B and C and B and C inherit from a and MRO or method resolution
order is a rule that Python follows to determine when you run a method which want to run when you have
such complicated inheritance structure MRO is a rule that says hey do this do this and then do that.
And that's the method that you should run.
Let me show you what I mean.
Let's say I wanted to do print D dot.
Now what do you think will happen here.
Let me move this out of the way or comment this out if I run this can you guess what's going to happen.
If I click Run I get one.
Is that what you expected.
Let's look through this D inherits from B and C and then those inherit from me.
So we get one because the MRO the method resolution order is that it doesn't go d b a instead it goes
D B C A hmm.
Let's think about this a little bit more MRO is simply saying what's first in line if things are common
between classes methods or variables or attributes.
What should I pick.
And there's actually a good way for us to check this if I do M R O.
And then run it like this.
Cyclic run look at that.
This is the order or the M R O of this class.
It says hey I'm going to check D first if you call let's say D dot name or D dot num I'm going to check
main dot D first.
So I'm going to check this class then I'm going to check main dot B so I'm going to check B and then
I'm going to check.
C and then I'm going to check a and then finally I'm going to check the base class object again and
we've seen that before it's the base class that all objects in Python inherit from.
So that's the order that it checks for num if we pass all of these
and I click Run I'll get in there D has no attribute num because it went through all this path even
check the base object and never found none.
If I did something like s t r if I click Run This works because it goes all the way through the inheritance
chain and then gets to the base object and the base object actually has this.
So it doesn't air out and yep you can use the Dunder string.
Now I found a great example here to show you why inheritances can be confusing and why things like MRO
you might want to avoid or at least be conscious of so let's copy this code
and let's just remove all of this and we're going to play a little game.
Now this syntax looks like this.
So this is the inheritance model of what we just created.
Looks pretty confusing doesn't it.
So if we do em here and we check the MRO or method resolution order of an What do you think the order
is going to be.
Pause the video here and try to guess what the order will be
let's do em dot MRO.
And by the way another way of doing this is to use the Dunder MRO and let's print this.
All right let's check this so the first thing we have is m all right.
We check him and then we check B we check B all right.
And then we check a.
So we check a here and then we check x x over here.
Then y then Z then the class object.
Is that why you guessed.
Let's look at the code
why this order.
Well the order is because of the way that we're passing in the parameters you see B is passed before
a and c so that means the order of MRO is going to be B then A but hold on after being what was that
while after B and A We have class X. Why did X come before Z so instead of going to Z let's make this
a little bit bigger instead of going to while we would have thought would be Z it goes to x then y Lindsay
then the object this is because of the algorithm that they use for doing MRO which is called depth for
a search.
Now this is beyond the scope of the course but as you can see it's quite a bit confusing and as a matter
of fact Python actually changed the MRO rules from what we had previously in younger versions of python.
So this is another one of those things that got updated but the reason I'm showing you this is because
you're never going to get tested on this stuff if you're writing code where the inheritance looks like
this.
I argue that you're writing bad code because this is overly complicated.
We haven't even written any code actually inside of these classes and it's already confusing so MRO
is there as a way to define what order you're going to inherit in.
And you can always use the MRO function or Dunder to check this but the reason I brought it here is
not just trying to confuse you.
The reason is that it exists.
However you should not structure your code in this way.
This doesn't mean that this doesn't happen in the world.
Yes it does but at least you have a way of checking and maybe debugging your code when you see a problem
like this.
I'll leave a resource for you about MRO if you're really curious and you really want to understand how
this algorithm works and how this order is actually determined.
But the key takeaway is that this is the way that Python works to determine hey when you call a method
or an attribute.
This is how I'm going to look up the hierarchy of inheritances.
All right.
If your brain hurts.
Don't worry.
So does mine take a break and I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.